Add new backup platform interface (#2514)
home-assistant/developers.home-assistant: docs/core/platform/backup.md

title: "Backup"
---

> There are two main purposes for an integration to implement a backup platform:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integrations may implement the backup platform for one of both of the following purposes:
```

Author: An integration can do both.

Reviewer: I made a typo. I meant "for one **or** both".

2. Pause or prepare integration operations before creating a backup and/or run some operation after a backup.

## Backup Agents

To add one or more backup agents, implement the two methods, `async_get_backup_agents` and `async_register_backup_agents_listener` in `backup.py`. Example:

```python
async def async_get_backup_agents(
    hass: HomeAssistant,
) -> list[BackupAgent]:
    """Return a list of backup agents."""
    if not hass.config_entries.async_loaded_entries(DOMAIN):
        LOGGER.debug("No config entry found or entry is not loaded")
        return []
    return [ExampleBackupAgent()]

@callback
def async_register_backup_agents_listener(
    hass: HomeAssistant,
    *,
    listener: Callable[[], None],
    **kwargs: Any,
) -> Callable[[], None]:
    """Register a listener to be called when agents are added or removed.

    :return: A function to unregister the listener.
    """
    hass.data.setdefault(DATA_BACKUP_AGENT_LISTENERS, []).append(listener)

    @callback
    def remove_listener() -> None:
        """Remove the listener."""
        hass.data[DATA_BACKUP_AGENT_LISTENERS].remove(listener)

    return remove_listener
```

> The listener stored in `async_register_backup_agents_listener` should be called when the integration wants to reload backup agents, ie to remove stale agents and add new ones. Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The listener stored in `async_register_backup_agents_listener` should be called every time there is the need to reload backup agents, to remove stale agents and add new ones, such as when the integration is reloaded. For example:
```

```python

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

async def async_unload_entry(hass: HomeAssistant, entry: ConfigEntry) -> bool:
    """Unload config entry."""
    # Notify backup listeners
    hass.async_create_task(_notify_backup_listeners(hass), eager_start=False)

    return await hass.config_entries.async_unload_platforms(

>         entry, COMPONENTS_WITH_DEMO_PLATFORM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        entry, PLATFORMS
```

    )

async def _notify_backup_listeners(hass: HomeAssistant) -> None:
    for listener in hass.data.get(DATA_BACKUP_AGENT_LISTENERS, []):
        listener()
```

A backup agent should implement the abstract interface of the `BackupAgent` base class as shown in this example:

```python

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
